>> Scott Moss: All right,
so now we're back.
Hopefully, everyone had enough
time to get through that exercise.
If you ran through an issue where,
I'm sorry,
if the app was breaking,
well, not breaking.
But it wasn't returning a context
like it should have been.
I discovered there might be an issue
with the file syncing of the database in
the different versions of Node.
Or possibly something else,
but it's failing silently.
So that's the thing,
we had one person with that problem.
So if you're having that problem,
I will get to the bottom of it soon.
If not, I'll offer an alternative
with just using something in memory
versus using a file,
which is a lot simpler.
But let's hop into the solution here.
So, where are we at?
Let's go to schema.
So first thing is,
if you look at this schema and
then you look at schema.json,
open that up here.
Open this one up here.
We wanna make some types based off
these schemas inside of schema.json.
So I'll do just that.
So I'll have a type User that has an id.
And I'm gonna give it the ID type.
Very misleading, I put string here.
But this is where you
would use the ID type.
Which like I said, is basically a string,
but it's meant to be a unique identifier.
That's it.
I don't think GraphQL does anything.
GraphQL doesn't know if this is unique.
It's not gonna know that this
user's id is different than this.
It's not doing that check.
This is more meant for
you as a developer to represent
this as being a unique identifier.
As far as GraphQL is concerned,
I'm pretty sure this gets parsed exactly
the same way a string gets parsed.
So that's that.
And that's always gonna be there,
so I'll put a bang.
Also has a username,
that's gonna be a String, and
also gonna say that that's there.
So that's it for the User, for now.
And one thing to note is,
this is what your schema will
look like in your database.
And the reason I'm saying that
is cuz as we get further along,
we're gonna be adding more fields to the
types that don't exist in the database.
So you can think of
them as virtual fields.
So I just want you to think about it,
it's not always one-for-one.
You might start off with your GraphQL
types looking like your models and
stuff like that.
But they will most,
eventually expand to be something else.
Just like if you ever used any ORM that
allows you to virtualize fields that don't
actually persist in the database,
it's basically the same thing.
You can virtualize fields, and
that represents a combination of things or
something like that.
And we got type Pet, which has also an ID,
also has a createdAt.
createdAt is a timestamp.
I just found out that you can't actually
use the Int one here, cuz of the bits.
So, and Flow obviously won't work.
So I'm just gonna put String here and
use a string timestamp.
And that's always gonna be there.
The other alternative is you could create,
or download and
install a new scalar just for dates.
I'm pretty sure there's a lot
of them that I've seen.
If you look, you'll find a lot of them.
But I don't wanna get into
custom scalars right now,
because that's a whole nother thing.
But yeah, you can add custom scalars,
which are very primitive values.
The way you do that is, like I said,
you either install it or
you have to create the parsing mechanisms,
how they come into the schema,
how they go out of the schema,
all that stuff, the validation rules.
It's a lot that goes
into creating a scalar.
So that's why we're not gonna get into it,
but you could do that.
The name is a String, and
it's always gonna be there.
And type is a String, and
that's always gonna be there.
So that's it for the types,
as far as the models in our database go.
Okay, the next thing is we need to
create a query to get all the pets.
So I'm gonna say, type Query.
And I'm gonna call it pets.
And for now, it's just gonna return
all the pets in the database.
And the array has to be there.
>> Scott Moss: And that's it for Query.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions
on the Query type?
>> Scott Moss: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: The case of pets,
lowercase versus uppercase [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Scott Moss: So you're saying what's
the difference between this lowercase pets
field and this uppercase Pet type?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Right, so
they have no relation.
I can call this whatever I want,
doesn't matter.
This field, its name has no relation
as far as GraphQL is concerned,
with its value.
This is just for us, this is just my
convention of querying a list of things.
And usually in GraphQL, when I'm like, all
right, I need to query a list of things,
I'll take whatever that thing is
I'm querying for, lowercase it and
pluralize it, and
say that's what I'm querying for.
So if this was users, I would have called
this users, and this would have been User.
But some people have their own convention.
Some people might say something
like petsList or allPets.
So it's up to you.
But for me, that's simple for
me cuz I always did it that way.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: But the key, the casing and
whatever it is has to match
whatever is on the resolver?
>> Scott Moss: 100%.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: So yeah,
that's why the validations on what
you can put here are very similar
to the validations to what you
can put in a JavaScript object.
So you couldn't come in here and
say, this is a field.
That's not gonna work.
Cuz you can't put that an object,
at least not without putting a bracket and
having it evaluate it.
So it has to be a valid property name.
Therefore, your resolvers
can match up with it.
>> Scott Moss: Yes?
>> Speaker 3: So one thing I saw
was that while defining a type,
it was colliding with
the type user in demo.js.
So is there a way to namespace these,
or are these always global?
>> Scott Moss: So
that conflict was probably just a tool
that you had built into your IDE.
It shouldn't conflict our runtime,
unless for some reason,
you were importing those typeDefs
into the same server, right?
Because that server that's inside of this
repo is different than the server that I
created in the demo file.
These are two different servers, so
they don't know about each other.
So the only conflict you should have had
is probably some tooling in your editor
that was like, hey,
there's already a thing here.
And at runtime, you can ignore that,
cuz it's not gonna matter anymore.
>> Speaker 4: I was just gonna say,
I was running into that error too.
But then when I commented out Pet and
users on the resolvers,
I didn't have that issue.
And I didn't need to comment
out my demo.js file.
>> Scott Moss: Say that again,
you commented out what?
>> Speaker 4: So I was having issues too,
something about the users model or
whatever.
But I think it had to do with
the resolvers.js file, and
not the demo.js file.
>> Scott Moss: Got it, okay.
>> Speaker 4: So as soon as I commented it
out on the resolvers in this directory,
I didn't have the error anymore.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so if you had an
error at runtime, the server printed out
an error, then yeah,
there's something wrong with your server.
But if you had an error,
as in just browsing your code and
it's saying this is broken,
then that's a plugin, yeah.
But yeah, you're right.
We're gonna come into that error too.
That error is because I have
placeholders in the resolvers file for
code that you're gonna be writing.
But there's no code there yet,
so it breaks.
So I left that there intentionally,
so you can see the output.
And you can figure out that,
I gotta get rid of this.
Which I'm glad you did,
so that's great, yeah.
Any other questions?
>> Scott Moss: No?
Okay, so now we'll go to resolvers.
And let's just try to run this and
see what happens.
So if I go here, the command I wanna run
will be, if you look at that package,
that JSON, there's one for yarn server.
Or you can just type in node and
follow the path to the server, but
you can just run yarn server.
>> Scott Moss: And this breaks, right?
So this breaks for a couple of reasons.
One, I never even created a server.
The resolvers and stuff are messed up.
So this is kinda like how I develop.
I like just error-driven development.
I'll just let it break, [LAUGH] hoping
the errors will tell me what to do.
So it's really good.
To me, it's better than TDD,
[LAUGH] at least initially.
Initially, at least, okay?
So now we'll go to the server.
And we'll make this a server.
So to make this a server,
we're just gonna pass in some typeDefs and
some resolvers here.
And then I'm going to do
some context like this.
And I'm just gonna return my models,
cuz I like to use my models in here.
I'm also just gonna add the db,
just in case.
You wanna do some raw db stuff that's not
included on the models, you can do that.
I mean,
you can put whatever you want here.
So I got that, so
now we're gonna try to run it.
Let's see,
>> Scott Moss: Get another error.
So this error is basically
saying you defined
a mutation in the resolvers,
but not in the schema.
So that's the errors that you
probably would have ran into.
So the way you would
have to get past that is,
you'd have to go back to resolvers,
and basically just start
commenting out any resolvers that
aren't associated in the schema.
That includes this User one,
I'm gonna comment that out too.
So now if we run this,
we get another error.
So pet.img is defined in resolvers,
but not in the schema.
So you might as well just go ahead and
get rid of this Pet too.
Or you can just get rid of that image,
it's up to you.
I'm just gonna get rid of the whole Pet.
And boom, at least we're error free.
The server's running.
But we're not quite done yet, because
we haven't defined a query for pets.
So to do that,
I go to the Query field in the resolvers.
I type in pets exactly the way it is here.
Just copy and paste it, to be safe.
And that's a function.
The initial value is nothing.
We don't have any arguments,
so that's nothing.
But we do have the context here.
So I'm gonna get that.
There is a fourth argument here.
I didn't talk about it because
it's really advanced and
you will probably never use it.
But it's basically the AST
of the incoming query.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
that's basically what it is.
I think it also has
the schema on it as well.
So this is useful for
doing projection on database queries.
So if you wanna only query for
the specific,
if your GraphQL types match up
one-for-one with your database types,
you could theoretically just look at that
info object, look at every field that's
coming here from the query, and go to your
database and only query for those fields.
So you can optimize your
database queries that way.
And that's what the info
object would be for.
But that only works if there's
a one-to-one relationship with the fields
and your GraphQL schema, versus the fields
on your models and your database.
Then you can do something like that.
And there are tons of
libraries that do that for
different types of databases
if you're interested.
But in my opinion, probably not.
You're probably gonna have way more
stuff over here than you do here.
So a one-to-one projection is
probably not gonna happen.
At first, it will.
It's gonna seem legit.
But then eventually, you're gonna
get real serious about GraphQL and
it's just not gonna happen.
So now we got the context, and
we should be able to just
return ctx.models.Pet.find,
>> Scott Moss: Many.
Type was butterfly thing, okay?
All right, so now we'll restart this.
>> Scott Moss: And we'll go to Playground.
>> Scott Moss: Refresh that, and
verify I'm looking at our docs.
Cool, we got Pets.
If you click on it,
you can see a Pet has an ID.
You click on this, it'll even tell you,
the ID scalar type represents a unique.
It breaks it down so hard for you,
you just can't get this wrong.
All right, so
now we can query for our pets.
And I should be able to get my pet stuff,
like this.
And hit Enter, and I'll just get
back at the end of the array.
So I saw a lot of people
that tried to do this.
Cuz they were like,
there's no pets in there.
So I'll just do this.
But remember,
GraphQL doesn't know what to do.
You've gotta think about it like this.
It's like if you had a baby
that had superpowers.
It can do anything, but
only if you told it what to do,
cuz it just doesn't understand much.
You have to tell it exactly what to do,
and then it can do it.
We're not telling it what to do.
We're just saying, pets.
And it's like, cool, but
what about the pets?
We have to tell it.
Otherwise, it won't know
what resolvers to go to.
It won't know what to execute.
It can do it, but you have to be very
specific and explicit about it, so.
And because pets is an object type and has
sub-fields, that's what this is saying.
It's saying,
you must have a selection of sub-fields.
Did you mean pets,
this bracket with some fields in here?
Is that what you meant?
Because I'm pretty sure Pet is an object.
And you didn't ask for any field, so
I don't know what you want me to do.
That's what it's saying.
So you have to do that.
Even though you don't have any pets,
you can do that and it works.